IT automation tool
 can configure systems, deploy software, and orchestrate more advanced IT tasks such as continuous deployments or zero downtime rolling updates.
Ansible is appropriate for managing all environments, from small setups with a handful of instances to enterprise environments with many thousands of instances.
Ansible manages machines in an agent-less manner.
 Ansible can easily connect with Kerberos, LDAP, and other centralized authentication management systems.
OpenSSH is one of the most peer-reviewed open source components, security exposure is greatly reduced
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Certain settings in Ansible are adjustable via a configuration file (ansible.cfg).
If installing Ansible from a package manager, the latest "ansible.cfg" file should be 
present in "/etc/ansible", possibly as a .rpmnew file (or other) as appropriate in the case of updates.

Ansible configuration can be seen using the list command: "ansible-config list"

Installation commands for Centos machine :
  $sudo amazon-linux-extras install ansible2
  $ansible --version
  $cat /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg
  $ansible-config list

PLAYBOOKS: 
  Plain-text YAML files that describes the desired state of something
  Human & machine readable
  Can be used to build entire application environments
  
VARIABLES:
  Can be provided via many different ways:
  - Playbooks
  - Files
  - Inventories(group vars, Host vars)
  - Command Line
  - Discovered variables
  - Ansible Tower
  
To set the target servers, use inventories
  - Static lines of servers
  - Ranges
  - Other custom things
  - Dynamic lists of servers: Azure,AWS,GCP
  
PLAYBOOKS: 
  Playbooks contains plays
  Plays contains tasks
  Tasks calls modules
  
  Tasks runs sequentially
  
  Handlers are triggered by tasks,
  & are run once, at the end of plays.
  
Ansible roles are a special kind of Playbook that are fully self-contained with tasks, variables, configuration templates & other supporting files.

Ansible has concept of Check-mode.
  - Dry-run for ad-hoc commands & playbooks
  - Validate Playbook runs before making changes on target systems

Ansible Galaxy : Source of community & vendor-provided ansible roles to help you get started faster.
You have to just do a little modification in file, that's it.



